When using pageable, we create pageable objects with certain properties,
and we have to specify at least the page size,
the current page number, and the sorting preference.
If the query method has pagination capabilities indicated in
the URI template pointing to the resource,
the resource takes the following parameters.
Page, which is the page number to access.
Size, the page size requested, which defaults to 20.
Sort, a collection of sort directives.
Let's focus on the page size and current page number first.
Rather than return everything from a large result set,
Spring Data REST recognizes some URL parameters that will
influence the page size and starting page number.
If you extend PagingAndSortingRepository and access the list of all entities,
you will get links to the first 20 entities by default.
To set the page size to any other number, add a size parameter.
In this example, we've added seven, meaning we want seven tickets returned.
Satisfying the HATEOAS constraint of REST means enabling the
client of the API to discover the next and previous pages based
on the current page in the navigation.
Let's look at the links section, which includes the following links.
First, self, next, and last.
There are also previous and search links, which we will review during the demo.
At the bottom is extra data about the page settings contained in a page element,
which includes the size of a page, the total number of elements,
total pages, and the page number you are currently viewing.
This extra information makes it easy for you to configure UI
tools like sliders or indicators to reflect overall position
the user is in viewing the data.
If you are currently at the first page of results,
no previous link will be rendered. The same is true for the last page of results, no next link will be rendered.